I use an experimental technique that is
based on photoelasticity this is a
property of some materials so that when
you stress them they change refractive
index so they change the way in which
light is transferred to it through them
which means that if you look at them in
the right setup then the only light that
comes through that setup is that which
has been affected by the forces and the
first elastic response of the material
so in my experiment I create an
avalanche of these photo elastic discs
and as they fall I see them as dark
circles with bright patterns in the
middle and I can relate those bright
light patterns to the forces so I could
measure forces from the light that I see
and that is pretty cool
you